README.md, before:

# MT5 Bridge API

## Overview
`mt5_bridge` is a FastAPI service and CLI tool that mediates market data access and order execution between a MetaTrader 5 terminal and external applications. 

- **Server**: Runs on Windows (where MT5 is installed) and exposes a REST API.
- **Client**: Runs on any platform (Windows, Linux, macOS) and communicates with the Server to fetch data or execute trades.

## Prerequisites
- Python 3.11+
- **Server Mode**: Windows environment with MetaTrader 5 terminal installed.
- **Client Mode**: Any OS.

## Installation (uv)

This project uses [uv](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv) for package management.

```bash
# Install dependencies
uv sync
```

On Linux/macOS, the `MetaTrader5` package will be skipped automatically, allowing you to use the client functionality without issues.

## Usage

The package installs a CLI command `mt5-bridge`.

### 1. Start the Server (Windows Only)

On your Windows machine with MT5:

```powershell
# Default (localhost:8000)
uv run mt5-bridge server

# Custom host/port
uv run mt5-bridge server --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
```

Additional options:
- `--mt5-path "C:\Path\To\terminal64.exe"`: proper initialization
- `--no-utc`: Disable Server Time -> UTC conversion

### 2. Use the Client (Any Platform)

From another machine (or the same one), use the client command to interact with the server.

```bash
# Check connection health
uv run mt5-bridge client --url http://192.168.1.10:8000 health

# Get historical rates (M1, last 1000 bars) for XAUUSD
uv run mt5-bridge client --url http://192.168.1.10:8000 rates XAUUSD

# Get latest tick
uv run mt5-bridge client --url http://192.168.1.10:8000 tick XAUUSD

# List open positions
uv run mt5-bridge client --url http://192.168.1.10:8000 positions
```

### JSON API

You can also access the API directly via generic HTTP clients (curl, Postman, specific libraries).

- `GET /health`
- `GET /rates/{symbol}?timeframe=M1&count=1000`
- `GET /tick/{symbol}`
- `GET /positions`
- `POST /order`
- `POST /close`
- `POST /modify`

## Architecture
- `mt5_bridge/main.py`: CLI entry point and FastAPI server definition.
- `mt5_bridge/mt5_handler.py`: Wrapper for MetaTrader5 package (guarded imports).
- `mt5_bridge/client.py`: HTTP client implementation.

## MCP (Copilot CLI) Integration
- Purpose: expose the MT5 Bridge API to Copilot CLI (MCP).
- Run MCP server:
  - `python mt5_bridge/mcp_server.py --api-base http://localhost:8000`

## License
MIT License.

Commit message:

Add warning about running from WSL paths to READMEs

README.md, after:

# MT5 Bridge API

## Overview
`mt5_bridge` is a FastAPI service and CLI tool that mediates market data access and order execution between a MetaTrader 5 terminal and external applications. 

- **Server**: Runs on Windows (where MT5 is installed) and exposes a REST API.
- **Client**: Runs on any platform (Windows, Linux, macOS) and communicates with the Server to fetch data or execute trades.

## Prerequisites
- Python 3.11+
- **Server Mode**: Windows environment with MetaTrader 5 terminal installed.
- **Client Mode**: Any OS.

## Installation (uv)

This project uses [uv](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv) for package management.

```bash
# Install dependencies
uv sync
```

On Linux/macOS, the `MetaTrader5` package will be skipped automatically, allowing you to use the client functionality without issues.

## Usage

The package installs a CLI command `mt5-bridge`.

### 1. Start the Server (Windows Only)

On your Windows machine with MT5:

```powershell
# Default (localhost:8000)
uv run mt5-bridge server

# Custom host/port
uv run mt5-bridge server --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
```

> **Note**: If you are using WSL, please checkout this repository on the **Windows file system** (e.g., `C:\Work\mt5_bridge`) and run the command from PowerShell/Command Prompt. Running Windows Python directly against a directory inside WSL (UNC path like `\\wsl.localhost\Ubuntu\...`) often causes `DLL load failed` errors with libraries like NumPy.


Additional options:
- `--mt5-path "C:\Path\To\terminal64.exe"`: proper initialization
- `--no-utc`: Disable Server Time -> UTC conversion

### 2. Use the Client (Any Platform)

From another machine (or the same one), use the client command to interact with the server.

```bash
# Check connection health
uv run mt5-bridge client --url http://192.168.1.10:8000 health

# Get historical rates (M1, last 1000 bars) for XAUUSD
uv run mt5-bridge client --url http://192.168.1.10:8000 rates XAUUSD

# Get latest tick
uv run mt5-bridge client --url http://192.168.1.10:8000 tick XAUUSD

# List open positions
uv run mt5-bridge client --url http://192.168.1.10:8000 positions
```

### JSON API

You can also access the API directly via generic HTTP clients (curl, Postman, specific libraries).

- `GET /health`
- `GET /rates/{symbol}?timeframe=M1&count=1000`
- `GET /tick/{symbol}`
- `GET /positions`
- `POST /order`
- `POST /close`
- `POST /modify`

## Architecture
- `mt5_bridge/main.py`: CLI entry point and FastAPI server definition.
- `mt5_bridge/mt5_handler.py`: Wrapper for MetaTrader5 package (guarded imports).
- `mt5_bridge/client.py`: HTTP client implementation.

## MCP (Copilot CLI) Integration
- Purpose: expose the MT5 Bridge API to Copilot CLI (MCP).
- Run MCP server:
  - `python mt5_bridge/mcp_server.py --api-base http://localhost:8000`

## License
MIT License.
